cookbooks: add snowflake ingestion cookbook (#146)
redpanda-data/rp-connect-docs: modules/cookbooks/pages/snowflake_ingestion.adoc

= Ingest data into Snowflake

> :description: Configure Redpanda Connect to ingest data from Redpanda into Snowflake using Snowpipe Streaming.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:description: Configure Redpanda Connect to ingest data from a Redpanda topic into Snowflake using Snowpipe Streaming.
```
Would it be better to be more specific?

// tag::single-source[]

ifndef::env-cloud[]

> In this cookbook, we use Redpanda Connect to generate data into a local Redpanda topic and then ingest that data into

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this cookbook, we use Redpanda Connect to generate data into a local Redpanda topic and then ingest that data into
```
This is a bit more direct and removes the use of 'we' which isn't in our style guide.

https://www.snowflake.com/en/[Snowflake^] using https://docs.snowflake.com/en/user-guide/data-load-snowpipe-streaming-overview[Snowpipe Streaming^].

== Prerequisites

- https://docs.redpanda.com/current/get-started/rpk-install/[`rpk` installed]

> - A https://trial.snowflake.com/[Snowflake account^].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- A https://trial.snowflake.com/[Snowflake account^]
```

> - `openssl` command line tool

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `openssl` command-line tool
```

> == Setup your Redpanda cluster

Reviewer: ```suggestion
== Set up your Redpanda cluster
```

> Run https://docs.redpanda.com/current/reference/rpk/rpk-container/rpk-container-start/[rpk container start] to create a local cluster for development:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Run https://docs.redpanda.com/current/reference/rpk/rpk-container/rpk-container-start/[rpk container start] to create a local Redpanda cluster for development:
```

```
rpk container start
```

endif::[]
ifdef::env-cloud[]

> In this cookbook, we use Redpanda Connect to generate data into a Redpanda Serverless topic, and then ingest that data into

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Configure a Redpanda Connect pipeline to generate and write data into a Redpanda Serverless topic, and then ingest that data into [Snowflake^](https://www.snowflake.com/en/) using [Snowpipe Streaming^](https://docs.snowflake.com/en/user-guide/data-load-snowpipe-streaming-overview).
```
For consistency with the intro for self-managed.

[Snowflake](https://www.snowflake.com/en/) using [Snowpipe Streaming](https://docs.snowflake.com/en/user-guide/data-load-snowpipe-streaming-overview).

== Prerequisites

- A https://cloud.redpanda.com/sign-up[Redpanda Cloud account]
- https://docs.redpanda.com/current/get-started/rpk-install/[`rpk` installed] and https://docs.redpanda.com/redpanda-cloud/reference/rpk/rpk-cloud/rpk-cloud-login/[signed into your Cloud account]

> - A https://trial.snowflake.com/[Snowflake account^].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- A https://trial.snowflake.com/[Snowflake account^]
```

> - `openssl` command line tool

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `openssl` command-line tool
```

== Set up your Redpanda cluster

> In https://cloud.redpanda.com/[Redpanda Cloud], create a new Serverless Standard cluster. After that completes, run `rpk cloud cluster select` to select the cluster

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In https://cloud.redpanda.com/[Redpanda Cloud], create a new Serverless Standard cluster. When the cluster is ready, run `rpk cloud cluster select` to select the cluster.
```
Should we say to run this locally, or is the obvious?

Author: I think that is obvious but you never know...

and set it to be your current https://docs.redpanda.com/current/get-started/config-rpk-profile/[rpk profile].

endif::[]

> After the cluster is running, create a topic to send data into Snowflake:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When the cluster is up and running, create a `demo_topic` to use as the data source for ingesting data into Snowflake:
```

Author: yes

[source,bash]
----
rpk topic create demo_topic
----

> Create a user with minimal https://docs.redpanda.com/current/manage/security/authorization/acl/[ACLs] to run the ingestion pipeline into Snowflake:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Create a user with minimal https://docs.redpanda.com/current/manage/security/authorization/acl/[ACLs] to run a data pipeline on the cluster:
```
Just a suggestion. Please check for accuracy.

Author: They are separate so I wouldn't really say that the pipeline runs "on" the cluster.

[source,bash]
----
rpk security user create ingestion_user --password Testing1234
----

Now that the user exists, give them read permissions to `demo_topic`, as well as full control over any consumer group with the prefix `redpanda_connect`:

[source,bash]
----
rpk security acl create --allow-principal ingestion_user --operation read --topic demo_topic
rpk security acl create --allow-principal ingestion_user --resource-pattern-type prefixed --operation all --group redpanda_connect
----

== Set up your Snowflake account

> Log in to your Snowflake account with a user who has ACCOUNTADMIN role. You can then run these commands to set up another user with minimal permissions

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Log in to your Snowflake account with a user who has the ACCOUNTADMIN role. Then, run the following SQL commands in a worksheet. They set up another user with minimal permissions to write data into a specified database and schema ready for streaming data to Snowflake. 
```

to write data into a specified database and schema for streaming data. Run the following SQL commands in a worksheet:

[source,sql]
----
-- Set default value for multiple variables
SET PWD = 'Test1234567';
SET USER = 'STREAMING_USER';
SET DB = 'STREAMING_DB';
SET ROLE = 'REDPANDA_CONNECT';
SET WH = 'STREAMING_WH';
USE ROLE ACCOUNTADMIN;

> -- CREATE USERS

Reviewer: Would it be worth putting the comments in sentence case (where appropriate) so they are easier to pick out, i.e. Create users?

Author: Probably yes

> -- CREATE USERS

Author: ```suggestion
-- Create users
```

CREATE USER IF NOT EXISTS IDENTIFIER($USER) PASSWORD=$PWD  COMMENT='STREAMING USER FOR REDPANDA CONNECT';
-- CREATE ROLES
CREATE OR REPLACE ROLE IDENTIFIER($ROLE);
-- CREATE DATABASE AND WAREHOUSE
CREATE DATABASE IF NOT EXISTS IDENTIFIER($DB);
USE IDENTIFIER($DB);
CREATE OR REPLACE WAREHOUSE IDENTIFIER($WH) WITH WAREHOUSE_SIZE = 'SMALL';

> -- GRANTS

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-- Grant privileges
```

GRANT CREATE WAREHOUSE ON ACCOUNT TO ROLE IDENTIFIER($ROLE);
GRANT ROLE IDENTIFIER($ROLE) TO USER IDENTIFIER($USER);
GRANT OWNERSHIP ON DATABASE IDENTIFIER($DB) TO ROLE IDENTIFIER($ROLE);
GRANT USAGE ON WAREHOUSE IDENTIFIER($WH) TO ROLE IDENTIFIER($ROLE);
-- SET DEFAULTS
ALTER USER IDENTIFIER($USER) SET DEFAULT_ROLE=$ROLE;
ALTER USER IDENTIFIER($USER) SET DEFAULT_WAREHOUSE=$WH;

> -- RUN FOLLOWING COMMANDS TO FIND YOUR ACCOUNT IDENTIFIER, COPY IT DOWN FOR USE LATER

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-- Run the following commands to find your account identifier. Copy it down for later use. It will be something like.....
```
Just a suggestion.

> -- RUN FOLLOWING COMMANDS TO FIND YOUR ACCOUNT IDENTIFIER, COPY IT DOWN FOR USE LATER

Author: ```suggestion
-- Run following commands to find your account identifier. Copy it down for later use.
```

> -- IT WILL BE SOMETHING LIKE organization_name-account_name

Author: ```suggestion
-- It will be something like `organization_name-account_name`
```

-- e.g. ykmxgak-wyb52636
WITH HOSTLIST AS 
(SELECT * FROM TABLE(FLATTEN(INPUT => PARSE_JSON(SYSTEM$allowlist()))))
SELECT REPLACE(VALUE:host,'.snowflakecomputing.com','') AS ACCOUNT_IDENTIFIER
FROM HOSTLIST
WHERE VALUE:type = 'SNOWFLAKE_DEPLOYMENT_REGIONLESS';
----

> === Create a RSA key pair

Reviewer: ```suggestion
=== Create an RSA key pair
```

Create an https://docs.snowflake.com/en/user-guide/key-pair-auth[RSA key pair^] using `openssl`
to authenticate Redpanda Connect to Snowflake. You are prompted to give an encryption password. Remember this phrase:
you will need it later.

[source,bash]
----
openssl genrsa 2048 | openssl pkcs8 -topk8 -inform PEM -passout pass:Testing123 -out rsa_key.p8
----

Create a public key. You are prompted to enter your encryption password.

[source,bash]
----
openssl rsa -in rsa_key.p8 -pubout -passout pass:Testing123 -out rsa_key.pub
----

> To register the public key in Snowflake, remove the public key delimiters and output only the base64 encoded portion of the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To register the public key in Snowflake, remove the public key delimiters and output only the base64-encoded portion of the
```

> PEM file. You can print that with the following bash command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
PEM file. Run the following bash command to print it:
```

[source,bash]
----
cat rsa_key.pub | sed -e '1d' -e '$d' | tr -d '\n'
----

> Back to the Snowflake worksheet, enter the output of the above command in the following SQL command and run:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the Snowflake worksheet, enter the output of the above command in the following SQL command and run:
```

[source,sql]
----
use role accountadmin;
alter user streaming_user set rsa_public_key='< PubKeyWithoutDelimiters >';
----

=== Create a schema using `streaming_user`

> Log out of Snowflake, then sign back in as the default user `streaming_user` you just created with the associated password (default: Test1234567).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Log out of Snowflake and sign back in as the default user (`streaming_user`) with the associated password (default: `Test1234567`). You created both in <<set-up-your-snowflake-account,Set up your Snowflake account>>.
```

Run the following SQL commands in a worksheet to create a schema (e.g., `STREAMING_SCHEMA`) in the default database (e.g., `STREAMING_DB`):

[source,sql]
----
SET DB = 'STREAMING_DB';
SET SCHEMA = 'STREAMING_SCHEMA';
USE IDENTIFIER($DB);
CREATE OR REPLACE SCHEMA IDENTIFIER($SCHEMA);
----

> == Create a pipeline from Redpanda to Snowflake

Reviewer: ```suggestion
== Create a pipeline from your Redpanda cluser to Snowflake
```

ifndef::env-cloud[]

You can now create the pipeline. Run the pipeline locally
and inject the xref:configuration:secrets.adoc[secrets] using environment variables. First, create
a `connect.yaml` file:

[source,yaml]
----
input:
  # Read data from our local `demo_topic`
  kafka_franz:
    seed_brokers: ["localhost:9092"]
    topics: ["demo_topic"]
    consumer_group: "redpanda_connect_to_snowflake"
    tls: {enabled: true}
    checkpoint_limit: 4096
    sasl:
      - mechanism: SCRAM-SHA-256
        username: ingestion_user
        password: ${REDPANDA_PASS}

>     # Define our batching policy. For this cookbook, we create small batches,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    # Define a batching policy. For this cookbook, create small batches,
```

>     # but a production environment should create files as large as possible.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    # but in a production environment use the largest file size you can.
```

    batching:
      count: 100 # Collect 10 messages before flushing
      period: 10s # or after 10 seconds, which ever comes first
output:
  snowflake_streaming:

>     # Make sure to replace this with your account identifier

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    # Replace this placeholder with your account identifier
```

    account: "< OrgName-AccountName >"
    user: STREAMING_USER
    role: REDPANDA_CONNECT
    database: STREAMING_DB
    schema: STREAMING_SCHEMA
    table: STREAMING_TABLE

>     # Inject our private key and password

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    # Inject your private key and password
```

    private_key_file: rsa_key.pub
    private_key_pass: "${SNOWFLAKE_KEY_PASS}"
    schema_evolution:
      enabled: true
    max_in_flight: 1
----

> With the file created, you can now run the pipeline, and any JSON data produced into the topic

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can now run the pipeline, and any JSON data produced into the topic
```

is streamed into Snowflake with minimal latency.

[source,bash]
----
REDPANDA_PASS=Testing1234 SNOWFLAKE_KEY_PASS=Testing123 rpk connect run ./connect.yaml
----

endif::[]
ifdef::env-cloud[]

> You can now create the pipeline. First create xref:configuration:secret-management.adoc[secrets] for the passwords and keys you created during setup.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can now create the pipeline. First create xref:develop:connect/configuration/secret-management.adoc[secrets] for the passwords and keys you created during setup.
```

Navigate to the Connect page in Redpanda Console, then click the "Secrets" tab, and create three secrets:

* `REDPANDA_PASS` with the value `Testing1234`

> * `SNOWFLAKE_KEY` with the value being the output of `awk '{printf "%s\\n", $0}' rsa_key.p8`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `SNOWFLAKE_KEY` set to the output value of `awk '{printf "%s\\n", $0}' rsa_key.p8`
```

> * `SNOWFLAKE_KEY_PASS` with the value `Testing123`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `SNOWFLAKE_KEY_PASS` set to `Testing123`
```

> Go to the "Pipelines" tab and create a pipeline called 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Select the **Pipelines** tab and create a pipeline called 
```

> "RedpandaToSnowflake". Use the following YAML configuration:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**RedpandaToSnowflake**. Use the following YAML configuration:
```

[source,yaml]
----
input:

>   # Read data from our `demo_topic`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  # Reads data from our `demo_topic`
```

  kafka_franz:
    seed_brokers: ["${REDPANDA_BROKERS}"]
    topics: ["demo_topic"]
    consumer_group: "redpanda_connect_to_snowflake"
    tls: {enabled: true}
    checkpoint_limit: 4096
    sasl:
      - mechanism: SCRAM-SHA-256
        username: ingestion_user
        password: ${secrets.REDPANDA_PASS}
    # Define the batching policy. This cookbook creates small batches,

>     # but production environment should create files as large as possible.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    # but in a production environment use the largest file size you can.
```

    batching:
      count: 100 # Collect 10 messages before flushing
      period: 10s # or after 10 seconds, whichever comes first
output:
  snowflake_streaming:

>     # Make sure to replace this with your account identifier

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    # Replace this placeholder with your account identifier
```

    account: "< OrgName-AccountName >"
    user: STREAMING_USER
    role: REDPANDA_CONNECT
    database: STREAMING_DB
    schema: STREAMING_SCHEMA
    table: STREAMING_TABLE
    # Inject our private key and password
    private_key_file: "${secrets.SNOWFLAKE_KEY}"
    private_key_pass: "${secrets.SNOWFLAKE_KEY_PASS}"
    schema_evolution:
      enabled: true
    max_in_flight: 1
----

endif::[]

You now can produce some data using `rpk` to test that everything works:

[source,bash]
----
echo '{"animal":"redpanda","attributes":"cute","age":6}' | rpk topic produce demo_topic -f '%v\n'
echo '{"animal":"polar bear","attributes":"cool","age":13}' | rpk topic produce demo_topic -f '%v\n'
echo '{"animal":"unicorn","attributes":"rare","age":999}' | rpk topic produce demo_topic -f '%v\n'
----

> The data produced into the topic is consumed and streamed into Snowflake on the order of seconds. You can now go back to the Snowflake worksheet and run the following query to see data show up live, with the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The data produced into the `demo_topic` is consumed and streamed into Snowflake in seconds. You can now go back to the Snowflake worksheet and run the following query to see data arrive in Snowflake with the
```

schema from the JSON data you produced.

[source,sql]
----
SELECT * FROM STREAMING_DB.STREAMING_SCHEMA.STREAMING_DATA LIMIT 50;
----

> 

Reviewer: You'll need a closing tag for single sourcing at the end of the file

`// end::single-source[]`. There also needs to be a corresponding page in Cloud. I'll create that now at point it to this PR so that we can preview that content.

Author: Thanks done I think :)

> 

Author: ```suggestion

// end::single-source[]
```

is streamed into Snowflake with minimal latency.

[source,bash]
----
REDPANDA_PASS=Testing1234 SNOWFLAKE_KEY_PASS=Testing123 rpk connect run ./connect.yaml
----

endif::[]
ifdef::env-cloud[]

You can now create the pipeline. First create xref:configuration:secret-management.adoc[secrets] for the passwords and keys you created during setup.

Navigate to the Connect page in Redpanda Console, then click the "Secrets" tab, and create three secrets:

* `REDPANDA_PASS` with the value `Testing1234`
* `SNOWFLAKE_KEY` with the value being the output of `awk '{printf "%s\\n", $0}' rsa_key.p8`
* `SNOWFLAKE_KEY_PASS` with the value `Testing123`

Go to the "Pipelines" tab and create a pipeline called 
"RedpandaToSnowflake". Use the following YAML configuration:

[source,yaml]
----
input:
  # Read data from our `demo_topic`
  kafka_franz:
    seed_brokers: ["${REDPANDA_BROKERS}"]
    topics: ["demo_topic"]
    consumer_group: "redpanda_connect_to_snowflake"
    tls: {enabled: true}
    checkpoint_limit: 4096
    sasl:
      - mechanism: SCRAM-SHA-256
        username: ingestion_user
        password: ${secrets.REDPANDA_PASS}

>     # Define our batching policy. For this cookbook, we'll create small batches
>     # but in a production environment we'll want to create as large of files as
>     # possible.

Author: ```suggestion
    # Define the batching policy. This cookbook creates small batches,
    # but production environment should create files as large as possible.
```

use role accountadmin;
alter user streaming_user set rsa_public_key='< PubKeyWithoutDelimiters >';
----

=== Create a schema using `streaming_user`

Log out of Snowflake, then sign back in as the default user `streaming_user` you just created with the associated password (default: Test1234567).
Run the following SQL commands in a worksheet to create a schema (e.g., `STREAMING_SCHEMA`) in the default database (e.g., `STREAMING_DB`):

[source,sql]
----
SET DB = 'STREAMING_DB';
SET SCHEMA = 'STREAMING_SCHEMA';
USE IDENTIFIER($DB);
CREATE OR REPLACE SCHEMA IDENTIFIER($SCHEMA);
----

== Create a pipeline from Redpanda to Snowflake

ifndef::env-cloud[]

You can now create the pipeline. Run the pipeline locally
and inject the xref:configuration:secrets.adoc[secrets] using environment variables. First, create
a `connect.yaml` file:

[source,yaml]
----
input:
  # Read data from our local `demo_topic`
  kafka_franz:
    seed_brokers: ["localhost:9092"]
    topics: ["demo_topic"]
    consumer_group: "redpanda_connect_to_snowflake"
    tls: {enabled: true}
    checkpoint_limit: 4096
    sasl:
      - mechanism: SCRAM-SHA-256
        username: ingestion_user
        password: ${REDPANDA_PASS}

>     # Define our batching policy. For this cookbook, we'll create small batches
>     # but in a production environment we'll want to create as large of files as
>     # possible.

Author: ```suggestion
    # Define our batching policy. For this cookbook, we create small batches,
    # but a production environment should create files as large as possible.
```

= Ingest data into Snowflake

> :description: How to configure Redpanda Connect to ingest data from Redpanda into Snowflake using Snowpipe Streaming.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
:description: Configure Redpanda Connect to ingest data from Redpanda into Snowflake using Snowpipe Streaming.
```

// tag::single-source[]

ifndef::env-cloud[]

> In this cookbook we'll use Redpanda Connect to both generate data into a local Redpanda topic, and then take that data and ingest it into

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In this cookbook, we use Redpanda Connect to generate data into a local Redpanda topic and then ingest that data into
```

https://www.snowflake.com/en/[Snowflake^] using https://docs.snowflake.com/en/user-guide/data-load-snowpipe-streaming-overview[Snowpipe Streaming^].

== Prerequisites

> - https://docs.redpanda.com/current/get-started/rpk-install/[RPK installed]

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- https://docs.redpanda.com/current/get-started/rpk-install/[`rpk` installed]
```

- A https://trial.snowflake.com/[Snowflake account^].
- `openssl` command line tool

== Setup your Redpanda cluster

> We'll use https://docs.redpanda.com/current/reference/rpk/rpk-container/rpk-container-start/[rpk container start] to create a local cluster for development.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Run https://docs.redpanda.com/current/reference/rpk/rpk-container/rpk-container-start/[rpk container start] to create a local cluster for development:
```

```
rpk container start
```

endif::[]
ifdef::env-cloud[]

> In this cookbook we'll use Redpanda Connect to both generate data into a Redpanda Serverless topic, and then take that data and ingest it into

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In this cookbook, we use Redpanda Connect to generate data into a Redpanda Serverless topic, and then ingest that data into
```

[Snowflake](https://www.snowflake.com/en/) using [Snowpipe Streaming](https://docs.snowflake.com/en/user-guide/data-load-snowpipe-streaming-overview).

== Prerequisites

- A https://cloud.redpanda.com/sign-up[Redpanda Cloud account]

> - https://docs.redpanda.com/current/get-started/rpk-install/[RPK installed] and https://docs.redpanda.com/redpanda-cloud/reference/rpk/rpk-cloud/rpk-cloud-login/[signed into your Cloud account]

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- https://docs.redpanda.com/current/get-started/rpk-install/[`rpk` installed] and https://docs.redpanda.com/redpanda-cloud/reference/rpk/rpk-cloud/rpk-cloud-login/[signed into your Cloud account]
```

- A https://trial.snowflake.com/[Snowflake account^].
- `openssl` command line tool

> == Setup your Redpanda cluster

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
== Set up your Redpanda cluster
```

> Navigate to https://cloud.redpanda.com/[Redpanda Cloud] and create a new serverless cluster. Once that's completed run `rpk cloud cluster select` to select the cluster

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In https://cloud.redpanda.com/[Redpanda Cloud], create a new Serverless Standard cluster. After that completes, run `rpk cloud cluster select` to select the cluster
```

and set it to be your current https://docs.redpanda.com/current/get-started/config-rpk-profile/[rpk profile].

endif::[]

> Once our cluster is up and running, we can create a topic that we'll use to send data into Snowflake:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
After the cluster is running, create a topic to send data into Snowflake:
```

[source,bash]
----
rpk topic create demo_topic
----

> Next up, we'll create a user with minimal https://docs.redpanda.com/current/manage/security/authorization/acl/[ACLs] to run our ingestion pipeline into Snowflake.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Create a user with minimal https://docs.redpanda.com/current/manage/security/authorization/acl/[ACLs] to run the ingestion pipeline into Snowflake:
```

[source,bash]
----
rpk security user create ingestion_user --password Testing1234
----

> Now that our user exists, we'll give them read permissions to `demo_topic`, as well as full control over any consumer group with the prefix `redpanda_connect`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Now that the user exists, give them read permissions to `demo_topic`, as well as full control over any consumer group with the prefix `redpanda_connect`:
```

[source,bash]
----
rpk security acl create --allow-principal ingestion_user --operation read --topic demo_topic
rpk security acl create --allow-principal ingestion_user --resource-pattern-type prefixed --operation all --group redpanda_connect
----

> == Setup your Snowflake account

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
== Set up your Snowflake account
```

> Login to your Snowflake account with a user who has ACCOUNTADMIN role. You can then run these commands to setup another user with minimal permissions
> to write data into a specified database and schema for streaming data. Execute the following SQL commands in a worksheet.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Log in to your Snowflake account with a user who has ACCOUNTADMIN role. You can then run these commands to set up another user with minimal permissions
to write data into a specified database and schema for streaming data. Run the following SQL commands in a worksheet:
```

-- CREATE USERS
CREATE USER IF NOT EXISTS IDENTIFIER($USER) PASSWORD=$PWD  COMMENT='STREAMING USER FOR REDPANDA CONNECT';
-- CREATE ROLES
CREATE OR REPLACE ROLE IDENTIFIER($ROLE);
-- CREATE DATABASE AND WAREHOUSE
CREATE DATABASE IF NOT EXISTS IDENTIFIER($DB);
USE IDENTIFIER($DB);
CREATE OR REPLACE WAREHOUSE IDENTIFIER($WH) WITH WAREHOUSE_SIZE = 'SMALL';
-- GRANTS
GRANT CREATE WAREHOUSE ON ACCOUNT TO ROLE IDENTIFIER($ROLE);
GRANT ROLE IDENTIFIER($ROLE) TO USER IDENTIFIER($USER);
GRANT OWNERSHIP ON DATABASE IDENTIFIER($DB) TO ROLE IDENTIFIER($ROLE);
GRANT USAGE ON WAREHOUSE IDENTIFIER($WH) TO ROLE IDENTIFIER($ROLE);
-- SET DEFAULTS
ALTER USER IDENTIFIER($USER) SET DEFAULT_ROLE=$ROLE;
ALTER USER IDENTIFIER($USER) SET DEFAULT_WAREHOUSE=$WH;
-- RUN FOLLOWING COMMANDS TO FIND YOUR ACCOUNT IDENTIFIER, COPY IT DOWN FOR USE LATER
-- IT WILL BE SOMETHING LIKE organization_name-account_name
-- e.g. ykmxgak-wyb52636
WITH HOSTLIST AS 
(SELECT * FROM TABLE(FLATTEN(INPUT => PARSE_JSON(SYSTEM$allowlist()))))
SELECT REPLACE(VALUE:host,'.snowflakecomputing.com','') AS ACCOUNT_IDENTIFIER
FROM HOSTLIST
WHERE VALUE:type = 'SNOWFLAKE_DEPLOYMENT_REGIONLESS';
----

=== Create a RSA key pair

> Next up we will need to create an https://docs.snowflake.com/en/user-guide/key-pair-auth[RSA key pair^] using `openssl`
> to authenticate Redpanda Connect to Snowflake. You will be prompted to give an encryption password, remember this phrase,
> you will need it later.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Create an https://docs.snowflake.com/en/user-guide/key-pair-auth[RSA key pair^] using `openssl`
to authenticate Redpanda Connect to Snowflake. You are prompted to give an encryption password. Remember this phrase:
you will need it later.
```

[source,bash]
----
openssl genrsa 2048 | openssl pkcs8 -topk8 -inform PEM -passout pass:Testing123 -out rsa_key.p8
----

> Next we will create a public key by running following commands. You will be prompted to type in the phrase you used in the above step.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Create a public key. You are prompted to enter your encryption password.
```

[source,bash]
----
openssl rsa -in rsa_key.p8 -pubout -passout pass:Testing123 -out rsa_key.pub
----

> To register our public key in Snowflake, we'll need to remove the public key delimiters and output only the base64 encoded portion of the
> PEM file. You can print that with the following bash command:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To register the public key in Snowflake, remove the public key delimiters and output only the base64 encoded portion of the
PEM file. You can print that with the following bash command:
```

[source,bash]
----
cat rsa_key.pub | sed -e '1d' -e '$d' | tr -d '\n'
----

> Now going back to our Snowflake worksheet, we'll enter the output of the above command in the following SQL command and execute.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Back to the Snowflake worksheet, enter the output of the above command in the following SQL command and run:
```

[source,sql]
----
use role accountadmin;
alter user streaming_user set rsa_public_key='< PubKeyWithoutDelimiters >';
----

=== Create a schema using `streaming_user`

> Now logout of Snowflake, sign back in as the default user `streaming_user` we just created with the associated password (default: Test1234567).
> Run the following SQL commands in a worksheet to create a schema (e.g. `STREAMING_SCHEMA`) in the default database (e.g. `STREAMING_DB`):

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Log out of Snowflake, then sign back in as the default user `streaming_user` you just created with the associated password (default: Test1234567).
Run the following SQL commands in a worksheet to create a schema (e.g., `STREAMING_SCHEMA`) in the default database (e.g., `STREAMING_DB`):
```

[source,sql]
----
SET DB = 'STREAMING_DB';
SET SCHEMA = 'STREAMING_SCHEMA';
USE IDENTIFIER($DB);
CREATE OR REPLACE SCHEMA IDENTIFIER($SCHEMA);
----

== Create a pipeline from Redpanda to Snowflake

ifndef::env-cloud[]

> With all of our setup out of the way, we're now ready to create our pipeline. We'll run our pipeline locally
> and inject the xref:configuration:secrets.adoc[secrets] using environment variables. First we need to create
> a `connect.yaml` file the following contents.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can now create the pipeline. Run the pipeline locally
and inject the xref:configuration:secrets.adoc[secrets] using environment variables. First, create
a `connect.yaml` file:
```

[source,yaml]
----
input:
  # Read data from our local `demo_topic`
  kafka_franz:
    seed_brokers: ["localhost:9092"]
    topics: ["demo_topic"]
    consumer_group: "redpanda_connect_to_snowflake"
    tls: {enabled: true}
    checkpoint_limit: 4096
    sasl:
      - mechanism: SCRAM-SHA-256
        username: ingestion_user
        password: ${REDPANDA_PASS}

>     # Define our batching policy. For this cookbook, we'll create small batches
>     # but in a production environment we'll want to create as large of files as
>     # possible.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    # Define our batching policy. For this cookbook, we create small batches,
    # but a production environment could create files as large as
    # possible.
```

Author: I think it should read `but a production environment should create files as large as`

    batching:
      count: 100 # Collect 10 messages before flushing
      period: 10s # or after 10 seconds, which ever comes first
output:
  snowflake_streaming:
    # Make sure to replace this with your account identifier
    account: "< OrgName-AccountName >"
    user: STREAMING_USER
    role: REDPANDA_CONNECT
    database: STREAMING_DB
    schema: STREAMING_SCHEMA
    table: STREAMING_TABLE
    # Inject our private key and password
    private_key_file: rsa_key.pub
    private_key_pass: "${SNOWFLAKE_KEY_PASS}"
    schema_evolution:
      enabled: true
    max_in_flight: 1
----

With the file created, we can now run our pipeline and any JSON data produced into our topic
will now be streamed into Snowflake with minimal latency.

[source,bash]
----
REDPANDA_PASS=Testing1234 SNOWFLAKE_KEY_PASS=Testing123 rpk connect run ./connect.yaml
----

endif::[]
ifdef::env-cloud[]

> With all of our setup out of the way, we're now ready to create our pipeline. First thing we need to do is
> create xref:configuration:secret-management.adoc[secrets] for the passwords and keys we created during setup.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can now create the pipeline. First create xref:configuration:secret-management.adoc[secrets] for the passwords and keys you created during setup.
```

> Navigate to the Connect page in Redpanda Console, then click on the "Secrets" tab and create 3 secrets:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Navigate to the Connect page in Redpanda Console, then click the "Secrets" tab, and create three secrets:
```

* `REDPANDA_PASS` with the value `Testing1234`
* `SNOWFLAKE_KEY` with the value being the output of `awk '{printf "%s\\n", $0}' rsa_key.p8`
* `SNOWFLAKE_KEY_PASS` with the value `Testing123`

> With those secrets created, we can go to the "Pipelines" tab and create a pipeline called 
> "RedpandaToSnowflake" and use the following YAML configuration.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Go to the "Pipelines" tab and create a pipeline called 
"RedpandaToSnowflake". Use the following YAML configuration:
```

[source,yaml]
----
input:
  # Read data from our `demo_topic`
  kafka_franz:
    seed_brokers: ["${REDPANDA_BROKERS}"]
    topics: ["demo_topic"]
    consumer_group: "redpanda_connect_to_snowflake"
    tls: {enabled: true}
    checkpoint_limit: 4096
    sasl:
      - mechanism: SCRAM-SHA-256
        username: ingestion_user
        password: ${secrets.REDPANDA_PASS}

>     # Define our batching policy. For this cookbook, we'll create small batches
>     # but in a production environment we'll want to create as large of files as
>     # possible.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    # Define the batching policy. This cookbook creates small batches,
    # but production environment could create files as large as
    # possible.
```

    batching:
      count: 100 # Collect 10 messages before flushing

>       period: 10s # or after 10 seconds, which ever comes first

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
      period: 10s # or after 10 seconds, whichever comes first
```

output:
  snowflake_streaming:
    # Make sure to replace this with your account identifier
    account: "< OrgName-AccountName >"
    user: STREAMING_USER
    role: REDPANDA_CONNECT
    database: STREAMING_DB
    schema: STREAMING_SCHEMA
    table: STREAMING_TABLE
    # Inject our private key and password
    private_key_file: "${secrets.SNOWFLAKE_KEY}"
    private_key_pass: "${secrets.SNOWFLAKE_KEY_PASS}"
    schema_evolution:
      enabled: true
    max_in_flight: 1
----

endif::[]

> With our pipeline running, you can produce some data using `rpk` to test that things are working:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You now can produce some data using `rpk` to test that everything works:
```

[source,bash]
----
echo '{"animal":"redpanda","attributes":"cute","age":6}' | rpk topic produce demo_topic -f '%v\n'
echo '{"animal":"polar bear","attributes":"cool","age":13}' | rpk topic produce demo_topic -f '%v\n'
echo '{"animal":"unicorn","attributes":"rare","age":999}' | rpk topic produce demo_topic -f '%v\n'
----

> With the data produced into the topic, it will be consumed and streamed into Snowflake on the order of seconds.
> We can now go back to our Snowflake worksheet and run the following query to see data showing up live, with the
> schema from the JSON data we produced.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The data produced into the topic is consumed and streamed into Snowflake on the order of seconds. You can now go back to the Snowflake worksheet and run the following query to see data show up live, with the
schema from the JSON data you produced.
```
